# SMART-WATER-METER-PROJECT-V1

**Date:** 10th April 2023

## Introduction

This repository contains the Draft prototype program for the Smart Water Meter Project. The program is developed using the STM32CubeIDE programming procedure. 
It interfaces with various components to efficiently monitor and manage water consumption.

## Hardware Components

The program interfaces the STM32F411CEU6 microcontroller with the following components:

- Water Flow Sensor
- Motorized Ball Valve via L298N Driver
- HT1621 LCD
- GSM SIM7600CE 4G Module

## Working Principle

The program continuously records pulses generated by the water flow sensor using an Interrupt Service Routine. 
It employs the equation Volume = 0.002663 * pulses to calculate the corresponding volume in liters of water passing through the sensor. 
This value was practically measured for accuracy.
The calculated volume is displayed on the HT1621 LCD in real-time as water is being consumed. 
Additionally, the program sends an SMS to the specified phone number (+254796456877) to record the daily water consumption. 
In case the water supplier wants to cut off the supply remotely, an SMS is sent to the meter, which rotates the motorized ball valve to stop the water supply.

## About the Developer

This program was developed by Eric Mulwa, a BSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering student at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology,
During his Final Industrial Attachment at Center for the Development of Electronic Devices (CDED).

